## Compiled Interceptors

Proposal based on Community Pull Request https://github.com/magento/magento2/pull/22826 created by [@fsw](https://github.com/fsw)

### Overview

The idea is to use a mechanism which generates Interceptors code using app config instead of reading config at runtime.
The main benefit of having this approach incorporated to Magento is improving Dev Experience while debugging and profiling Magento codebase.

#### Current Code generated Interceptors

```php
public function methodX($arg) {
    $pluginInfo = $this->pluginList->getNext($this->subjectType, 'methodX');
    if (!$pluginInfo) {
        return parent::methodX($arg);
    } else {
        return $this->___callPlugins('methodX', func_get_args(), $pluginInfo);
    }
}
```

#### Proposed version of Code generated Interceptors 

```php
public function methodX($arg) {
    switch(getCurrentScope()){
        case 'frontend':
            $this->_get_example_plugin()->beforeMethodX($this, $arg);
            $this->_get_another_plugin()->beforeMethodX($this, $arg);
            $result = $this->_get_around_plugin()->aroundMethodX($this, function($arg){
                return parent::methodX($arg);
            });
            return $this->_get_after_plugin()->afterMethodX($this, $result);
        case 'adminhtml':
            // ...
        default:
            return parent::methodX($arg);
    }
}
```

### Design

The main idea is to compile the Interceptor using information from source code. 
This makes plugins slightly faster (as we no need to resolve all plugins dynamically). 
This is important in places where there is a lot of non-cached PHP logic going on (for example admin panel).

Having plugins called directly also makes code easier to debug. The Interceptors generated by this approach are fully compatible with the ones generated by Magento 
currently, so there is no need to change anything in existing plugins.


#### PROS

1. Easier Debugging process as there is no anymore dynamic method execution via `___callPlugins` (No  calls to ___callPlugins in call stack).
2. Slightly Faster response time for uncached code in production mode 

#### CONS 

1. Each time after making change in plugins declaration (di.xml) or adding/modyfing the source code of pluings, generated/code/* needs to be purged. 
2. Longer execution and higher memory consumption while the whole code generation phase - https://github.com/magento-engcom/msi/issues/2269#issuecomment-499551378
3. Higher latency for the first warmup request and corresponding generation in Dev Mode - https://github.com/magento/magento2/pull/22826#issuecomment-491949914


### Discusssions and Public Involvements

- [YouTube recording of Architectural Discussion](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=no2jVn_mixk&list=PLDvMskiz68Q3ZVyRsc59IjEqX85LaO8mr&index=16)
- https://github.com/creatuity/magento2-interceptors

### Open Questions

1. Whether it’s okay that we will affect Dev Experience for Developer mode getting slower generation time on first request? Is this really a big issue for developers. 
2. How bad is that we will affect Dev Experience making developer to remove the whole generation folder if he/she modifies somehow any plugin in the system. This item is the most problematic here, because we have specific behavior for particular code-generated entity which differs from others.
3. Should we support both approaches and introduce DI configuration which will provide an ability to choose between an existing and proposed implementations of Interceptors generation? 
4. Should we observe changes of files and re-generate Interceptors automatically on granular level (only modified plugins) in case plugins or DI.xml configuration have been modified (similar to Node Watch https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-watch).
